

===== PAGE 1 =====
GeoLM: Performance-oriented Leader Management
for Geo-Distributed Consensus Protocol
Duling Xu†§, Dafang Zhang†§, Tong Li†*, Yunpeng Chai†, Zegang Sun†, Weiming Li†,
Yangfan Liu†, Qipeng Wang†, Jiaqi Liang‡, Yang Ren‡, Wei Lu†, and Xiaoyong Du†
Renmin University of China†, Huawei‡,
Abstract—The global business of transnational enterprises systems ensuring strong consistency in data access across
demands geo-distributed databases, where the leader-follower- different data centers or cloud providers. These new business
based consensus protocols are the key to guaranteeing consistency
models are driving the development of a new paradigm for
of replicas spread across regions. Compared with traditional
geo-distributed databases.
databases running in a single data center, determining which
node is the leader in consensus protocol has a greater per- Consensus protocols such as Paxos [22], Raft [23], or their
formance impact in geo-distributed databases running across variants [24]–[34] have been widely used in modern distributed
multiple data centers. However, the performance of legacy databases such as GaussDB [35], TiDB [36], PolarDB [37],
leader management is far from satisfactory due to the network
Spanner [6], Aurora [38], and Neon [39]. These consensus pro-
and application dynamics (e.g., network delay, node popularity,
tocols apply a leader-follower paradigm to guarantee replica
operation read-write ratio). This paper proposes GeoLM toward
performance-oriented leader management for geo-distributed consistency, where a leader node is responsible for handling
consensus protocols. GeoLM captures the network and ap- client requests. In contrast, other nodes participate as followers
plication dynamics and proactively conducts seamless leader to synchronize operation logs. The influence of leader selection
handovers with bounded switching costs. Our geo-distributed
on performance is negligible in traditional databases operating
experimental results show that GeoLM improves performance
within a single data center. However, our study reveals that in
up to 49.75% over the baselines (e.g., Raft and Geo-Raft) and
achieves considerably good performance compared to state-of- geo-distributed databases, the role of the leader significantly
the-art consensus protocols (e.g., SwiftPaxos, CURP, and EPaxos). impacts system performance (see §III-A).
Index Terms—Geo-Distributed Database, Leader Management, Traditional consensus protocols perform well within the data
Log Replication
center network [33], [40]. However, geo-distributed consensus
protocol runs over a wide-area network (WAN) with various
I. INTRODUCTION
application requirements, where the best leader selection is
Distributed databases, with their high scalability, high avail- challenging due to the network dynamics and application
ability, and cost-effectiveness, are widely applied in fields dynamics. First, the link delays between the leader to the
such as cloud computing and big data analytics [1]–[21]. followers significantly impact the log-replication latency. This
Traditional distributed databases are typically confined within reveals that leader selection should capture network dynamics
a single data center [4]–[9]. However, with the increasing in terms of network delays among all nodes. Second, selecting
trend of data circulation in the digital economy era, transna- a leader node with more popular replicas or write operations
tional industries including banking, e-commerce, and cloud reduces forwarding delays among nodes, improving system
providers often operate multiple data centers. For instance, performance. This reveals that leader selection should capture
Huawei [10] and Amazon [11] span 93 and 105 availabil- application dynamics in terms of node popularity and read-
ity data centers within 33 geographic regions, respectively. write ratio of operations (see §III-B). However, the legacy
Recently, distributed databases have evolved from isolated ways of leader management typically focus either on network
services limited to single data centers towards collaborative dynamics or application dynamics alone [25], [26]. In sum-
services spanning multiple data centers. For example, Google mary, the legacy leader management schemes are far from
BigQuery Omni [12] and Snowflake [13] connect data ware- satisfactory for geo-distributed consensus protocols.
houses across Google Cloud, AWS, Azure, and other cloud To tackle these issues, we introduce GeoLM1, which consid-
providers, enabling real-time interactions during user queries ers both the network dynamics and application dynamics and
across multiple clouds. Kubernetes Federation [14] connects proactively conducts seamless leader handovers with bounded
multiple Kubernetes clusters over the Internet, where functions switching costs. First, GeoLM periodically selects a target
and data may reside in different regions or across differ- node according to a utility function of link delays, node pop-
ent public cloud providers. In China, emerging companies ularity, and operation read-write ratio. This ensures GeoLM’s
like DatenLord [15], which implements distributed database network and application awareness. Second, GeoLM adjusts
the leader switching window where the target node’s utility
This work is supported by the NSFC Project (No.62202473,62441230, remains positive. This avoids leader-switching oscillations and
No.U23A20299, and No.6241101193), the CCF-Huawei Populus Grove Fund
(No.CCF-HuaweiDB202308). §The first two authors contributed equally to
this work. *Tong Li is the corresponding author (tong.li@ruc.edu.cn). 1GeoLM is named after Geo-distributed Leader Management.


===== PAGE 2 =====
bounds GeoLM’s overall switching costs. Third, GeoLM
allows the current leader node to pre-synchronize logs with a 125
target node that has fallen behind. This capability can aid the
120
target node in winning the election and ensuring consistency 115
in the consensus protocol.
110 We have implemented the GeoLM prototype in a dis-
tributed database based on ETCD and integrated it into the Node 1 Node 2 Node 3 Node 4 Node 5
maintained Raft protocol [41]. GeoLM extends the leader
management module without affecting the execution processes
of the storage layer and database layer, thus ensuring com-
patibility with log-replication-based variants. We then con-
duct evaluations through both trace-driven simulation and
testbed deployment. Evaluation results show that GeoLM re-
duces average/worst-case transaction latency over the baselines
Raft by up to 30.77%/49.75% and Geo-Raft [27] by up to
23.97%/24.62%, respectively. GeoLM also achieves consider-
ably good performance compared to the most recent leader-
management-based approach SwiftPaxos [26] and the state-of-
the-art log-replication-based approaches such as CURP [28]
and EPaxos [31]. This serves as a strong validation of GeoLM.
The paper is organized as follows. §II overviews the related
work. §III introduces the background and motivates GeoLM.
The overview of GeoLM is depicted in §IV. The design and
implementation are elaborated in §V. In §VI, we evaluate
GeoLM. Finally, §VII concludes the paper.
II. RELATED WORK
This section provides an overview of methods to enhance
the performance of geo-distributed consensus protocols.
Optimization on leader management. As for leader man-
agement, several variants based on Paxos/Raft are proposed
to enhance the communication efficiency of the consensus
protocol [24]–[26], [42]. For example, Xu et al. [24] pro-
pose Raft-Plus to use inter-node network delay for leader
selection. Vukolic et al. [25] proposed the Droopy/Dripple to
strategically configure the leader ensemble based on historical
workload and system response latency to better fit uneven
workload conditions. Ryabinin et al. [26] propose SwiftPaxos,
which changes the election process using two-round voting,
accelerating the election process in case of replica divergence.
These works focus either on network dynamics (e.g., Raft-
Plus) or application dynamics (e.g., Droopy/Dripple, Swift-
Paxos) alone.
Optimization on log replication. In terms of log replication,
the fundamental optimization strategy involves enhancing per-
formance through reducing communication requirements [27]–
[34]. Among them, Geo-raft [27], CURP [28], and Pig-
paxos [29] fall into the category of introducing new roles
(e.g., secretary, observer, relay) to ease leader performance
bottlenecks. Fast Paxos [30], EPaxos [31], Dpaxos [32], Cock-
RoachDB [33], and GeoGauss [34] fall into the category of
reducing the long-distance communication times to shorten
global database transaction time. These studies, however,
demand intrusive modifications to the logic of log replication,
limiting their applicability. For example, CURP and EPaxos
)ces/sqer(
tuphguorhT
Max: 69.90
70 Max: 122.90
60
Average: 117.86 95.80%
9.15% 50 Average: 49.10
Min: 112.60 40 Min: 35.70
Node 1 Node 2 Node 3 Node 4 Node 5
(a) Intra data center. (b) Inter data center.
Fig. 1: An example of performance change when changing
the leader node over intra-datacenter and inter-datacenter
links. The X-axis represents the leader node.
260
240
220
200
tuphguorhT
)ces/sqer(
Original Raft
Modified Raft
Leader Change
80
60
0 100 200 300 400 500
Time (s)
yaleD )sm( Sharp Increase
Fig. 2: An example of how delays impact performance.
rely on the assumption of commutativity of operations and
adapt to limited scenarios. Essentially, these variants operate
independently of our proposed GeoLM, which can seamlessly
integrate with these variants to enhance performance further.
III. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION
A. Leader Selection is More Crucial in Geo-Distributed Con-
sensus Protocols
In a consensus protocol with the leader-follower paradigm,
the leader handles client communication and coordinates the
replication and synchronization of data replicas on other
follower nodes. In general, choosing a better node as the leader
positively correlates with performance. However, compared
with traditional consensus protocol running in a single data
center, leader election in geo-distributed consensus protocol
has a greater performance impact. To explain this more
clearly, we modified ETCD-Raft [41] to give an example
of performance change when changing the leader node over
intra-datacenter and inter-datacenter links. Figure 1 shows the
results. The impact of leader selection on performance is
unremarkable for traditional databases running in a single data
center (a better leader only improves 9.15% performance).
However, when nodes are spread across regions in a geo-
distributed database, the system performance is more crucial
to who is the leader node (a better leader improves 95.80%
performance). This reveals that leader selection is more crucial
in geo-distributed consensus protocols.
B. Leader Selection Should Capture Network Dynamics and
Application Dynamics
When operating a geo-distributed consensus protocol, we
see multiple challenges in determining the best leader selec-
tion. We will elaborate next.


===== PAGE 3 =====
Client
(cid:27)(cid:19)
Popularity = 50% Popularity = 20%
(cid:25)(cid:19)
1 Popularity = 30% 3
(cid:23)(cid:19)
2
1(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:20)(cid:3)(cid:3) 1(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:21)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)1(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:22)(cid:3)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:3)(cid:79)(cid:72)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:85)
(a) Popularity (b) Completion time under different node as leader.
(cid:12)(cid:86)(cid:80)(cid:11)(cid:3)(cid:72)(cid:80)(cid:76)7(cid:3)(cid:81)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:38)
1(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:20) 1(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:21) 1(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:3)(cid:22) Client Client Client
(cid:27)(cid:24) (cid:27)(cid:20) R:W = 100:0 Read Read
Leader
(cid:25)(cid:28)(cid:25)(cid:26) 1 T
T
1
2
R
A
e
p
d
p
i
e
r
n
e
d
ct
e
W
nt
r
r
i
i
t
e
e
s
T1 1 T
T
1
2
R
C
e
o
d
m
ir
m
ec
it
t
t e
R
d
e
r
a
e
d
p ly
1
(cid:25)(cid:20) T T T T 3 4 A C p om pe m nd it e te d d r e re p p ly ly T2 T3 T T 1 2 A A p pp p e e n n d d e e d n r tr e i p e l s y T1 T2
(cid:23)(cid:25) (cid:23)(cid:26) (cid:23)(cid:22) 2 T 3 2 T4 3 2 T1 3
Leader T2
(cid:22)(cid:20) R:W = 0:100 Write Write
Client Client Client
(a) Example of nodes (b) Leader only reads (c) Leader only writes
Fig. 3: An example of how node popularity impacts Fig. 4: An example of how the read-write ratio impacts
performance. (a) shows an example of a cluster with performance. The read-write ratio on Node 1 is 100:0, and
different popularity. (b) shows the time required for each on Node 2 is 0:100. The red text markers represent the
node in the cluster to complete its requests when the cluster time required for write requests, and the blue text markers
leader is controlled (from left to right, Node 1, Node 2, represent the time for read requests.
and Node 3 as the leader).
reveals that leader selection should prioritize nodes with a
higher popularity.
Observation #1 (Network Dynamics): Leader selection de-
pends on network delays among all nodes. Geo-distributed Observation #3 (Application Dynamics): Leader Selection
consensus protocol runs over a WAN whose dynamics are depends on the read-write ratio of operations. The access
non-negligible [43]. The network dynamics is manifested in pattern can fluctuate over time due to shifts in application
three aspects. (a) Enlarged value of delays. The round-trip usage, business needs, or seasonal demands. Where read
time (RTT) of an inter-data-center link (e.g., 100 ms) is over operations can be handled directly by either the leader or
three orders of magnitude higher than that of an intra-data- any followers while write operations require a leader to
center link (e.g., 10 us). (b) Enlarged difference of delays. coordinate proposals among followers, achieving agreement
The RTT differences among nodes are tens to hundreds of through a quorum, and ensuring durability through replicated
milliseconds (e.g., RTT = 20 ms vs. RTT = 200 ms), which logs. Under identical network conditions, nodes assuming the
is non-negligible compared with the node processing delay. role of leader experience performance variations based on
(c) Enlarged fluctuation of delays. The optimal leader may their read-write ratio of operations. Specifically, selecting a
become sub-optimal due to RTT fluctuation caused by network leader with more write operations reduces forwarding delay
congestion or route change. Figure 2 gives an example of from followers to the leader, improving system performance.
performance change when changing the leader node under To explain this clearly, Figure 4 (a) shows an example of 3
network deterioration (a sharp increase in the total delay nodes with the same network delays (i.e., RTT = 2T) but
among all nodes). We modified the ETCD-Raft to change its with different read-write ratios (i.e., the read-write ratio on
leader node at 200 s. Figure 2 shows that the performance Node 1 is 100:0, and the read-write ratio on Node 2 is 0:100).
impact from delay deterioration can be significantly reduced. When Node 1 acts as the leader (see Figure 4 (b)), the latency
This reveals that leader selection should consider network is doubled compared to when Node 2 acts as the leader
delays among all nodes. Geo-distributed consensus protocol (see Figure 4 (c)). This reveals that leader selection should
also serves applications with dynamic characteristics. The prioritize nodes with a lower read-write ratio.
application dynamics is manifested in two aspects: node
C. Challenges
popularity and read-write ratio of workload. We discuss it next.
How to determine the target node? A target node is the node
Observation #2 (Application Dynamics): Leader selection
that has the potential to be the best leader. Our observations
depends on node popularity. Node popularity refers to the
have shown that leader selection should consider network
measure of how frequently a node is accessed or utilized for
dynamics (i.e., network delay) and application dynamics (i.e.,
operations such as reads or writes. Under identical network
node popularity, read-write ratio). Generally, the system per-
conditions, nodes assuming the role of leader experience
formance gain after a node becomes the leader is positively
performance variations based on their respective levels of
related to a utility model, where the utility function should
node popularity. Specifically, selecting a leader node with
simultaneously consider factors including network delay, node
more popular replicas reduces forwarding delays among nodes,
popularity, and read-write ratio. In this paper, GeoLM deter-
improving the system performance. To explain this more
mines the target node if it achieves the highest utility value.
clearly, we show an example of three nodes with the same
network delays (i.e., RTT = 20 ms) but with different node How can the target node be voted the leader? The target
popularity (i.e., 50%, 30%, and 20%, respectively) in Figure 3. node with the highest utility may lose the election during the
It has been observed that when Node 1 (with 50% popularity) election process. This can be attributed to the outdated log of
acts as the leader, the latency is 34.7% lower compared to the target node. To ensure the target node receives votes from
when Node 3 (with 20% popularity) acts as the leader. This a majority of the nodes, the log of the target node should be


===== PAGE 4 =====
up-to-date before sending out request-to-vote RPCs (Remote
Geo-Distributed Database
Procedure Calls). In this paper, GeoLM proactively switches
the leader regardless of whether the current leader fails or Network Popularity Read-Write
Delays Ratio
not, distinguishing it from legacy consensus protocols that Node
only initiate leader changes in response to leader failures. To State Machine
ensure the target node is voted as the leader, GeoLM takes
Target Leader Leader Log
full advantage of the present leader node to pre-synchronize Selection Handover Election Replication
Candidate
logs where the target node has fallen behind. Target Set
Target Node
Switching Geo-Distributed
How to control the frequency of leader switching? A small Damping GeoLM Consensus Protocol
frequency of leader switching may fail to respond promptly to
network and application dynamics. In contrast, frequent leader Network Storage Services (timer/scheduler/thread pool…)
switching may induce excessive switching costs, degrading the
Fig. 5: The framework of GeoLM.
system’s performance. Assuming that each leader switching
requires a fixed cost, the total cost induced by GeoLM is When substituting Equations (2) and (3) in (1), the utility
proportional to the switching frequency. In this paper, GeoLM of node n can be modeled as follows:
adopts a damping mechanism to dynamically adjust the leader
N
switching window to control the frequency of leader switching. u = (cid:88) P ∗ [(T leader − T n) + W · (T leader − T n )]
n i i i i median median
The goal is to adapt to network and application dynamics with
i=1
bounded switching costs. (4)
where T leader denotes the median link delay from the leader
median
IV. GEOLM OVERVIEW to all followers, and T n denotes the median link delay
median
from node n to all other nodes. Here we argue that that
The primary goal of GeoLM is to achieve consistently high
applying the median link delay T to approximate the
performance by switching the leader node according to the net- median
commit latency τ is reasonable. This is because the leader
work and application dynamics. In this section, we first model
must wait for confirmation from at least half of all followers.
the utility function for each node following its assumption of
leadership, and then we introduce the framework of GeoLM B. GeoLM Framework
based on the utility model.
Figure 5 illustrates the general framework of a geo-
distributed consensus protocol, where GeoLM adds three com-
A. Utility Modeling
ponents (colored with red blocks) namely: (1) Target Selection,
We define the node utility u as the performance improve- (2) Switching Damping, and (3) Leader Handover. These
ment when it becomes the leader. For a distributed database additional components cooperate with the existing modules
consisting of N nodes, the utility of a node n is: (colored with purple and blue blocks) in the legacy consensus
protocol, aiming to achieve high-performance leader manage-
N
(cid:88)
u = P · (Cleader − Cn) (1) ment for geo-distributed databases.
n i i i
i=1 Target Selection. The input of this component is the RTT
where P refers to the popularity of node i, Cleader represents matrix between each node, the popularity of each node, and the
i i
the completion time of requests reaching node i with the read-write ratio of operations. These states are continuously
present leadership, and Cn represents the completion time of updated at the leader node via interaction with follower nodes.
i
requests reaching node i when node n acts as the leader. According to Equation (4), the component first calculates the
According to the way of handling read and write opera- utility values for all nodes. Next, it identifies nodes with utility
tions in consensus protocols, Cleader and Cn can be further values exceeding 0 to compose a designated collection (termed
i i
computed as follows: the target set) as the output. This ensures GeoLM’s network
and application awareness (see §V-A).
Cleader = R · T leader + W · (τ + T leader) (2)
i i i i leader i
Switching Damping. The target set may contain multiple op-
where R i and W i refer to the read ratio and write ratio of tional nodes. The utility values of nodes may also vary dynam-
operations, respectively. Particularly, we have R i + W i = 1. ically (e.g., sometimes being greater than 0 and other times
T leader represents the RTT between node i and the leader less than 0). This may result in leader-switching oscillations.
i
node, τ leader represents the commit latency of node i with the To tackle this issue, GeoLM introduces a component, called
present leadership. Similarly, we have Switching Damping, to select a stable node with a positive
and high utility value. Specifically, the component dynamically
Cn = R · T n + W · (τ + T n) (3)
i i i i n i adjusts the leader switching window (i.e., observation period)
where T n represents the RTT between node i and n, τ where the target node’s utility value should be kept to exceed
i n
represents the commit latency of node i with the leadership 0. This also controls the frequency of leader switching and
of node n. bounds GeoLM’s overall switching costs (see §V-B).


===== PAGE 5 =====
Handover executed Handover unexecuted Handover executed
Node 1 Collected 1 2 3 4 5 Utility
1 Information 1 0 𝑻𝟏 𝟐 𝑻𝟏 𝟑 𝑻𝟏 𝟒 𝑻𝟏 𝟓 Computation Window Window Window
2 3 RTT to peers 2 0 𝑼𝒏 = 000 001 011 000 010 100 010 100 000 000 001 001 000
4 … 5 𝑻𝟏 𝟐 R R a e 𝑻 t a io 𝟏 𝟑 d - W … 𝑾 rite 𝟏 𝑻𝟏 𝟓 3 4 5 𝑻𝟓 𝟏 D 𝑻 e 𝟓 𝟐 lay 𝑻 … M 𝟓 𝟑 at 𝑻 r 0 𝟓 𝟒 ix 0 ∑ 𝑾 𝑵𝒊# 𝒊× 𝟏 ( 𝑷 𝑻 𝒊 𝒎𝒍𝒆 × 𝒂𝒆𝒅𝒅 [ 𝒊𝒆 ( 𝒂𝒓 𝑻 + 𝒏 𝒊𝒍 — 𝒆𝒂𝒅 𝑻 𝒆 𝒎𝒏 𝒓 𝒆 — 𝒅𝒊𝒂 𝑻 𝒏 𝒊𝒏 ) ) ] Summarized Information 𝟎 𝟏 : : 𝑼 𝑼 𝒕 𝒕 𝒊 𝒊 𝒍 𝒍 𝒊 𝒊 𝒕 𝒕 𝒚 𝒚 ≤ > 𝟎 𝟎
2 1 3 Nu R m e b q e u r e s 𝑸 t 𝟏 W1 R R a e t a io d … - V W ec ri t t o e r W5 Utility 1 V 0 e 0 c 0 to 1 r 2 1 3 1 1 1 : : : 1 1 1 5 3 2 0 0 0 % % % Com U p ti u li t t a y t ion 1 0 0
Node 5 Collected P1 … P5 Target Set = Node Read-Write
4 5 Information Popularity Vector { Node1, Node 5 } Delay Ratio Popularity Utility Score
Fig. 6: An example of target selection workflow. Fig. 7: An example of switching damping.
B. Switching Damping
Leader Handover. Before the target node becomes the can-
didate for leader election, the Leader Handover component The design rationale of switch damping is to increase the
enables the present leader node to pre-synchronize logs where difficulty of switching if the handover is executed successfully
the target node has fallen behind. Specifically, GeoLM applies and reduce the difficulty of switching if the handover is
a modified Node State Machine where the present leader unexecuted for a period. We define this period as the damping
acts as the Helper Node for proactive leader switching. This window (denoted by wnd), during which we decide whether to
can help the target node win the election and ensure the enter the leader handover. Assume the initial window is wnd
0
consistency of the consensus protocol (see §V-C). (typically proportional to the heartbeat cycle, see Figure 12(b)
for more details), during the damping window, we check if
V. SYSTEM DESIGN DETAILS there is at least one node whose utility value remains consis-
tently positive (i.e., u > 0). If yes, we double the damping
This section elaborates on the design and implementation
window (i.e., wnd = 2 ∗ wnd) and enter the leader handover
of the specific modules in GeoLM.
phase (as we will discuss in the next section); Otherwise, we
halve the damping window (i.e., wnd = min{ wnd , wnd })
A. Target Selection 2 0
and keep the leader node unchanged. Switch damping can
Figure 6 gives an example of a five-node geo-distributed control the switching frequency, thereby achieving a bounded
database to better explain the workflow of the Target Selection. switching cost (see §VI-C for more details).
First, for network delays, we’ve integrated application- To explain this more clearly, Figure 7 further gives an exam-
layer RTT estimation into the consensus protocol to adapt ple of how the Switch Damping component works. Assume the
to network dynamics. First of all, each node measures the initial window is wnd = 2. Then we collect 2 utility vectors
0
smoothed RTT from this node to all other nodes via the < 0, 0, 1 > and < 0, 1, 1 > and find that the utility of Node 3
heartbeat messages. Then the leader collects all the RTT keeps positive during the damping window. Then the damping
vectors from each follower via the RttProbeResp messages. window is doubled (i.e., wnd = 4) and Node 3 begins acting
For instance, the RTT vector of Node 1 is < T 2, T 3, T 4, T 5 >. as the role of the candidate node. After the leader is switched
1 1 1 1
These RTT vectors ultimately converge at the leader node, to Node 3, we have to monitor 4 utility vectors < 0, 1, 0 >,
where it is reshaped into a delay matrix as shown in Figure 6. < 1, 0, 0 >, < 0, 1, 0 >, and < 1, 0, 0 > instead to check
Second, the read-write ratio should be updated according to if there is any node whose utility value keeps positive during
longer-term statistics where each follower counts the number the damping window. In the example of Figure 7, we find
of read-operations (e.g., query) and write-operations (e.g., that none of the nodes meet the conditions (i.e., the target set
update and insert) on each node and periodically syncs the is ∅). In this case, the damping window will be halved (i.e.,
read-write ratio to the leader. For instance, the leader can wnd = 2).
maintain a write-ratio vector < W , W , ..., W >, where W
1 i 5 i
C. Leader Handover
denotes the write ratio of Node i.
Third, the node popularity cannot be estimated indepen- The Leader Handover component modifies the leader
dently by a single node. Instead, it requires the followers election process by introducing a scheme called Log Pre-
(e.g., Node i) to periodically send the number of local requests Synchronization. Specifically, we allow the leader to proac-
(from clients, denoted by Q ) to the leader. The leader then tively retrieve the latest log index from the target node and
i
calculates each node’s popularity accordingly. For instance, update the logs accordingly, ensuring that the target node has
the popularity vector is < P , P , ..., P >, where P denotes the same maximum log index as the leader at the current
1 i 5 i
the popularity of Node i. term. This approach ensures that the target can more easily
Finally, according to Equation (4), we calculate the node get votes after initiating an election. After the leader sends
utility as the performance improvement when it becomes the the log message to the target node, it steps down to become
leader. All nodes with positive utility enter the target set for a helper and stops sending heartbeats. When the target node
selection, such as Nodes 1 and 5 in Figure 6. gets the log completion message, it already knows the leader


===== PAGE 6 =====
Leader Candidate Helper Follower
Receive Msg.Heartbeat
Client Request
Receive higher term
starts up
P1 t 0 t 2 t 5 Receive higher term
Requests Election Timeout
P2 ① ③ ④ ⑤ transfer Follower Candidate Leader Helper
P3 t 1 ② t 3 ④ ⑤ t 4
Election ④ ⑤ Win Heartbeat Timeout Votes from majority Receive Msg. LogsCompletion
P4
Receive Committed Logs
P5 ④ ⑤
Fig. 9: The node state machine in GeoLM.
Fig. 8: An example of leader handover.
has stepped down and initiates an election without waiting
for the heartbeat timeout (usually 150-300 ms [41]). This
significantly reduces the cluster’s downtime caused by waiting
for the timeout, ensuring the target has a higher priority in
initiating the election. Fig. 10: A table of node state functions.
To explain this more clearly, we give an example of the
broadcasted periodically from each node in an all-to-
entire handover process in Figure 8. Step ⃝1 : At time t
0
, the
all paradigm, and the Msg.RttProbeResp messages are
Leader Node (P1) decides to transfer leadership to P3 and
sent to return timestamps for RTT sampling. Messages
sends Msg.1 (as Message 1, the same below) to P3 to request
Msg.LeaderHandover and Msg.LeaderHandoverResp (i.e.,
its latest log index. Step ⃝2 : P3 receives Msg.1 at t
1
and
Msg.1 and Msg.2 in Figure 8) are sent when the leader
responds to P1 with Msg.2, which carries P3’s latest log index.
decides to transfer leadership. Msg.LogsCompletion message
Step ⃝3 : At t
2
, after receiving the response, P1 sends Msg.3 to
is sent by the candidate to transition the leader into a helper.
P3, containing all the committed logs at the leader (from P3’s
The GeoLM implementation also modifies the Node State
latest log index to P1’s latest log index at t ), then steps down
2
Machine of the consensus protocol. As illustrated in Figure 9,
to become a Helper Node, stopping heartbeats and beginning
we introduce helper, a new node state in which the prior
caching client requests. P3 receives the committed logs from
leader node helps to cache requests before a new leader
P1 at t
3
and begins to catch up. Step ⃝4 : P3 then becomes
wins in the election process. Particularly, when receiving
the Candidate Node and starts an election by sending Msg.4
Msg.LogsCompletion message from the candidate, the leader
to request votes. Step ⃝5 : At t
4
, the other Follower Nodes
transitions to the helper. When receiving Msg.Heartbeat mes-
respond to the vote requests with Msg.5, casting their votes.
sage from a new leader, the helper transitions to the fol-
Eventually, P3 obtains the majority of votes and successfully
lower. During log pre-synchronization, when receiving the pre-
becomes the new leader.
synced committed logs from the leader, the follower (i.e.,
It is worth noting that another follower (other than the target
target node) transitions to the candidate. Figure 10 further
node) might also reach the heartbeat timeout and initiate an
lists the functions of nodes under different states. Particularly,
election, winning the election before the target node enters
the helper stops sending Msg.Heartbeat and begins caching
the leader handover phase. In this case, GeoLM falls back to
requests instead of processing requests.
the legacy way of leader election. Upon receiving a heartbeat
from the new leader, the Helper Node transitions to a Follower VI. EVALUATION
Node and forwards all client requests from its term, ensuring
A. Experiment Setup
seamless handover without downtime.
Setup. We evaluate GeoLM by prototyping it on our trace-
D. Implementation driven simulation and real-world testbed deployment.
We implemented GeoLM in a distributed database based • Trace-driven simulation: We utilize local servers with
on ETCD [41] and integrated it into the maintained Raft Traffic Control (TC) netem [44] for our testing. To accurately
protocol with less than 500 lines of code. Specifically, we simulate complex network scenarios, including irregular ab-
reuse the already existing messages such as Msg.Heartbeat, solute delay variations and jitter, we base our simulations on
Msg.Vote, and Msg.Granted. Msg.Heartbeat is used to the trace data of the worldwide Amazon AWS cloud from an
report the heartbeat, Msg.Vote (i.e., Msg.4 in Figure 8) is open website [45]. By applying the tool of Piecewise Cubic
sent from the candidate to request votes, and Msg.Granted Hermite Interpolating Polynomial (PCHIP) [46], we generated
(i.e., Msg.5 in Figure 8) is sent by the follower/helper over 10,000 multi-dimensional link delay matrices (10x10)
to grant votes. We further define several new types that reflect the average link delays and distribution patterns
of messages such as Msg.RttProbe, Msg.RttProbeResp, among the geo-distributed AWS servers. These delay matrices
Msg.LeaderHandover, Msg.LeaderHandoverResp, and are fed into TC to simulate the time-varying delays between
Msg.LogsCompletion. The Msg.RttProbe messages are data nodes in our geo-distributed database.


===== PAGE 7 =====
300
200
100
0
)sm(
ycnetaL
Average
1000
500
0
Workload A Workload B Workload C Workload D
)sm(
ycnetaL
Raft Geo-Raft GeoLM
600
400
200
Tail
0 Throughput Frequency
Fig. 11: Overall performance.
• Real-world testbed deployment: We also deploy a seven-
node geo-distributed database across various regions to assess
performance in a real production environment. The server
locations and configurations are as follows: one server in
Guangzhou, two servers in Beijing (located in two different
data centers), and two servers in Shanghai (also in two
different data centers). Each server uses the HUAWEI Cloud
c3.xlarge.2 instance with Ubuntu 22.04 Server 64-bit, and is
configured with 4 CPU cores, 8GB of RAM.
Workloads. We conducted tests using the Yahoo! Cloud
Serving Benchmark (YCSB) [47] and focused on workloads
A, B, C, and D as primary test loads. Workload A consists of
50% reads and 50% updates. Workload B is made up of 95%
reads and 5% updates. Workload C consists entirely of reads
(100%) with a uniform access distribution. Lastly, Workload D
comprises 95% reads and 5% inserts, maintaining a read-write
ratio similar to Workload B while evaluating data insertion.
Schemes. We conduct a comparative performance evaluation
of GeoLM with state-of-the-art consensus protocols. First,
since GeoLM is integrated into Raft [23], it and Geo-Raft [27]
are considered as baseline. We also compare GeoLM with the
state-of-the-art Raft/Paxos variants including SwiftPaxos [26],
CURP [28], and Epaxos [31]. Among them, SwiftPaxos is a
representative leader-management-based approach to enhance
performance. CURP and Epaxos are two representative log-
replication-based approaches to enhance performance, whereas
Epaxos further represents the leaderless consensus protocol.
B. Overall Performance
Method. Overall performance is measured using the YCSB
benchmarking tool, where 20 clients simultaneously send
requests to the system, completing 100,000 operations in
120,000 records. We monitor the average latency per request.
Rigorously and fairly, we compared GeoLM with two baseline
schemes, Raft and Geo-Raft, which were both uniformly
implemented in the same ETCD project and compared under
the same network traces and workloads.
Results. The subfigure at the top portion of Figure 11 indicates
that GeoLM reduces the average transaction latency over Raft
by 29.74%, 30.77%, 15.64%, and 25.46% for Workloads A,
B, C, and D, respectively. In comparison to Geo-Raft, GeoLM
demonstrated enhancements of 23.97%, 11.89%, 2.08%, and
10.56% for Workloads A, B, C, and D, respectively. We also
)ces/sqer(
tuphguorhT
25
20
15
10
5
0
)h/semiT(
ycneuqerF
w Damping
w/o Damping
700
680
660
640
620 32 34 36 38 40 42
Average Latencys (ms)
(a) Damping vs. w/o damping.
)sm(
ycnetaL
liaT
GeoLM wnd0 = 20 GeoLM wnd0 = 40
GeoLM wnd0 = 80 Raft
(b) Parameter sensitivity.
Fig. 12: (a) Effectiveness of switching damping. (b) Per-
formance under different initial damping windows (wnd )
0
with the unit of heartbeat cycle in GeoLM (1 heartbeat
cycle = 200 ms), and Raft (default).
examined performance under worst-case conditions, specifi-
cally the (99th percentile) tail latency. As illustrated in the bot-
tom portion of Figure 11, GeoLM’s tail latency improved over
Raft by 29.59%, 49.75%, 34.05%, and 23.21% for Workloads
A, B, C, and D, respectively. When compared to Geo-Raft,
the tail latency improvements are 19.81%, 18.33%, 4.19%,
and 24.62% for Workloads A, B, C, and D, respectively.
This demonstrates that the performance of geo-distributed
transaction processing can be greatly improved by GeoLM.
Additionally, we conducted experiments with more data nodes
(e.g., 9 nodes), and the results remained consistent.
Analysis. First, the improvement in average and tail latency
is most significant for Workload A when comparing both Raft
and Geo-Raft. This enhancement is due to GeoLM, which
considers the read-write ratio of nodes and allocates network
resources more effectively for write operations that require
more round trips, thereby boosting overall performance. Sec-
ond, performance improvements are relatively smaller under
all-read workload (i.e., Workload C). This limitation arises
because the optimizations for write operations in GeoLM
cannot be utilized in these scenarios. Instead, only basic
performance enhancements can be achieved by selecting more
efficient leader nodes.
C. GeoLM Deep Dive
This section first investigates the optimality, effectiveness,
and cost of the key components (i.e., Target Selection, Switch-
ing Damping, and Leader Handover) in GeoLM. Then we
discuss the performance impact of factors such as the read-
write ratio and popularity. Finally, we compare GeoLM with
more state-of-the-art Raft/Paxos variants.
Optimality of Target Selection. We assess the optimality of
the Target Selection component by introducing two metrics:
precision and recall. A precision rate of 100% indicates that
all selected target nodes are correct, meaning that these nodes
were optimal at the time of their selection based on subsequent
performance results. Recall measures the extent to which we
comprehensively select the correct optimal nodes and serves
as an auxiliary metric. We tested GeoLM in a fixed seven-node
cluster setup with consistent read-write ratios, trace-based
latency, and node popularity characteristics while monitoring


===== PAGE 8 =====
300
200
100
A B C
Workload
ycnetaL
egarevA
)sm(
w/o Log Pre-synchronization w Log Pre-synchronization
140
130
120
Fig. 13: Effectiveness of Log Pre-Synchronization.
Raft Geo-Raft GeoLM
each node’s actual status and overall system performance.
We compared the performance data of each node when it
served as the leader without switching roles. Over three
experiments, each lasting about one hour, we observed 20
instances of leader handovers. Of these, all 20 were correct,
while 6 potentially correct nodes were not chosen, resulting
in a precision rate of 100% and a recall rate of 76.92%.
This indicates that our algorithm is highly accurate in node
selection, and our conservative approach considers the error
risks during handover, ensuring beneficial decision-making.
Effectiveness of Switching Damping. In this experiment, we
assessed the effectiveness of damping by controlling whether
the damping module was active and observing the performance
under both conditions. As shown in Figure 12(a), we validated
that damping is indeed effective in improving throughput(up to
20.34% better than not using) in GeoLM. Additionally, we ob-
served an interesting phenomenon: although we theoretically
bounded the switching frequency (relative to the number of
windows) in §V-B, the initial window size, wnd , significantly 0
impacts performance in practice. Specifically, if the window
size is too large, it results in too few switches within the
total completion time, leading to suboptimal performance.
For example, in Figure 12(b), when wnd is 80 times the
0
heartbeat cycle, its average latency is worse than when wnd
0
is 40 times the heartbeat cycle. Conversely, if the window
size is too small, such as wnd being 20 times the heartbeat
0
cycle, it results in an excessively high switching frequency,
incurring additional costs. This manifests as no significant
improvement in average latency but an increase in tail latency.
Based on our implementation tests, we recommend using an
initial window size of 40 heartbeat cycles. As shown by the
pink square in Figure 12(b), this configuration achieves a
balanced performance in both average and tail latency.
TABLE I: Switching duration analysis.
Waiting Time Election Duration Total Duration
Raft 150 - 300 ms 234 ms 384 - 534 ms
GeoLM 30 us 153 ms 154 ms
Cost of Leader Handover. Table I gives a breakdown of the
switching duration of GeoLM. We analyze hundreds of leader
switching and find that the target node in GeoLM initiates an
election within 30 us after receiving the Msg.logCompletion.
The average switching duration is 153 ms. In contrast, Raft
needs to wait for a heartbeat timeout of 150-300 ms to begin
an election, with an average switching duration of 234 ms.
Our total switch time saves at least 59.90% per switching.
Effectiveness of Log Pre-Synchronization. We indepen-
dently tested the impact of log pre-synchronization during
)sm(
ycnetaL
egarevA
Node 1 Node 2 Node 3
200
180
160
140
0 5 10 15
Epoch
(a) Read-write ratio
)ces/sqer(
tuphguorhT
GeoLM (5:3:2) Raft (1:1:1)
GeoLM-Poor (5:3:2)
(b) Popularity
Fig. 14: (a) Performance impact of read-write ratio. The
read-write ratio for Node 1 is 50:50, Node 2 is 95:5, and
Node 3 is 100:0. (b) Performance impact of popularity.
GeoLM-Poor represents a GeoLM variant without con-
sidering the node’s popularity. GeoLM (5:3:2) represents
the full implementation of GeoLM under the condition
that the read/write requests to Nodes 1, 2, and 3 are in
proportions of 50%, 30%, and 20%, respectively.
handover on overall performance. As shown in Figure 13,
using pre-synchronization significantly reduces average re-
sponse time under all types of workloads. This advantage
becomes particularly pronounced as the write ratio increases
(from Workload C to A). This is because a higher write
ratio requires more log synchronization, thus amplifying the
benefits of log pre-synchronization. Consequently, log pre-
synchronization enhances overall performance and achieves
greater performance gains under a higher write ratio.
Performance impact of read-write ratio. We simulate dif-
ferent practical application scenarios by controlling the read-
write ratio of the nodes while keeping the cluster latency and
popularity conditions consistent. Specifically, we set the read-
write ratios of Node 1, Node 2, and Node 3 to 50:50 (read-
write balance), 95:5 (more reads and less writes), and 100%
read (i.e., read-only), respectively. We test the performance
of each node in each cluster (Raft, Geo-Raft, and GeoLM)
under such extreme read-to-write ratio differences, specifically
showing the average latency in Figure 14(a). We observed
varying overall performances among the three solutions under
identical cluster read-write ratio settings, particularly in han-
dling uneven read-write ratios. Among them, Raft exhibits the
weakest performance in managing such disparities. Geo-Raft
shows some improvements overall, attributed to the backup
of secretary nodes, though these gains are not substantial. In
contrast, GeoLM demonstrates intelligent handling of uneven
load distribution, seamlessly transitioning the leader node and
achieving significant performance enhancements. Specifically,
GeoLM performs approximately 10.76% better than Raft and
about 7.27% better than Geo-Raft in these scenarios.
Performance impact of popularity. In this experiment, we
adjust the user request number for 3 nodes while keeping
other variables consistent to validate the effectiveness of Ge-
oLM regarding popularity. GeoLM-Poor represents a GeoLM
variant without considering the node’s popularity. GeoLM
(5:3:2) represents the full implementation of GeoLM under
the condition that the read/write requests to Nodes 1, 2, and


===== PAGE 9 =====
2500
2000
1500
1000
SwiftPaxos GeoLM EPaxos CURP
)ces/sqer(
tuphguohT
90
80
70
Raft Geo-Raft GeoLM
Fig. 15: Performance comparison with more schemes.
3 are in proportions of 50%, 30%, and 20%. GeoLM-Poor
(5:3:2) represents the GeoLM-Poor under the condition that
the read/write requests to Nodes 1, 2, and 3 are in proportions
of 50%, 30%, and 20%, respectively. Raft (1:1:1) represents
the Raft under the condition that the read/write requests are
uniformly distributed. Figure 14 (b) shows the results. We
find that throughput in Raft (1:1:1) distributed is stable. In
the context of non-uniform requests, the system throughput is
initially lower than Raft cluster and consistently remains low.
This is due to the redirection of requests before processing.
For GeoLM (5:3:2), the initial throughput is low, but as the
epochs progress (1 epoch = 10 min), the throughput gradually
increases, approaching and even surpassing the performance of
Raft (1:1:1). The reason for this improvement is that, despite
the differing request popularity levels for each node and the
potential need for many request redirections, the popularity
optimization eventually influenced the switching of the leader
node. From the logs, we observe that by the second epoch,
the system already completed the leader switching. Subse-
quently, the system throughput of GeoLM (5:3:2) significantly
improves, surpassing the performance of both GeoLM-Poor
(5:3:2) and Raft (1:1:1).
Comparison with more schemes. We further conduct ex-
periments to compare GeoLM with a classic leaderless dis-
tributed consensus protocol EPaxos, the most recent single-
leader consensus protocol SwiftPaxos, and a primary-backup
replication protocol CURP based on the public repository
[32]. We try our best to ensure these schemes run under
similar conditions, including network fluctuations, popularity,
and read-write ratios. Figure 15 indicates that GeoLM achieves
considerably good performance compared to EPaxos, Swift-
Paxos, and CURP, thus effectively validating the capabilities
of GeoLM. It is worth noting that although EPaxos approaches
its best performance, GeoLM’s worst-case performance is far
superior. This reveals that GeoLM exhibits better stability.
D. Real-World Testbed Deployment
We deploy GeoLM in two representative scenarios to inves-
tigate the GeoLM’s performance over WAN links.
Two-region-three-center deployment: We deploy three cloud
servers across two regions: two servers in different data centers
in Beijing and one in Guangzhou, forming a two-region-
three-center cluster. This type of cluster represents the most
commonly deployed scheme in primary-backup solutions, such
as Huawei’s primary-backup database systems, known for its
resilience against the failure of a data center [48]. As illustrated
in Figure 16, the final results demonstrate that GeoLM out-
performed both Raft and Geo-Raft significantly. Specifically,
)sm(
ycnetaL
280
260
240
220
Raft Geo-Raft GeoLM
)ces/sqer(
tuphguorhT
(a) Latency (b) Throughput
Fig. 16: Two-region-three-center scenario.
100
80
Raft Geo-Raft GeoLM
)sm(
ycnetaL
280
260
240
220
Raft Geo-Raft GeoLM
)ces/sqer(
tuphguorhT
(a) Latency (b) Throughput
Fig. 17: Three-region-five-center scenario.
GeoLM achieved a 13.43% and 17.93% improvement in
throughput compared to Raft and Geo-Raft, respectively. In
terms of average latency, GeoLM exhibited 15.26% lower
latency than GeoRaft and 11.89% lower latency than Raft.
For tail latency, GeoLM showed reductions of 21.12% and
18.41% compared to GeoRaft and Raft, respectively.
Three-region-five-center deployment: We deploy five cloud
servers across three regions: one in Guangzhou, two in differ-
ent data centers in Beijing, and two in different data centers
in Shanghai, forming a three-region-five-center cluster, Which
represents the most widely discussed and researched scheme
in academia, to withstand the failure of an entire region. As
depicted in Figure 17, the results are as follows: In terms
of throughput, GeoLM outperforms GeoRaft by 28.95% and
Raft by 23.27%. In terms of average latency, GeoLM shows
22.59% lower latency than GeoRaft and 19.02% lower than
Raft. In terms of tail latency, GeoLM demonstrates reductions
of 26.45% compared to GeoRaft and 26.52% to Raft.
VII. CONCLUSION
Leader management becomes significantly more crucial
in geo-distributed databases than in databases confined to
a single data center. We propose GeoLM, which, for the
first time, integrates both network and application dynamics
to proactively optimize leader switching. This significantly
enhances transaction performance while ensuring consistency
and bounding switching costs. In the future, we plan to
open-source GeoLM to drive innovation in the field of geo-
distributed consensus protocols.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank the reviewers for their valuable suggestions. We
thank Feng Zhang, Ju Fan, Yueguo Chen, Mengxing Liu,
and Zheng Chen for their guidance and support. We are also
grateful for conversations with and feedback from Zhanhuai
Li and Guoliang Li.


===== PAGE 10 =====
REFERENCES [22] L. Lamport, “Paxos made simple,” ACM SIGACT News, pp. 51–58,
2001.
[1] D. Borthakur, J. Gray, J. S. Sarma, K. Muthukkaruppan, N. Spiegelberg, [23] D. Ongaro and J. Ousterhout, “In search of an understandable consensus
H. Kuang, K. Ranganathan, D. Molkov, A. Menon, S. Rash et al., algorithm,” in USENIX ATC, 2014, pp. 305–319.
“Apache hadoop goes realtime at facebook,” in Proceedings of the 2011 [24] J. Xu, W. Wang, Y. Zeng, Z. Yan, and H. Li, “Raft-plus: Improving
ACM SIGMOD, 2011, pp. 1071–1080. raft by multi-policy based leader election with unprejudiced sorting,”
[2] X. Zhang, H. Wu, Z. Chang, S. Jin, J. Tan, F. Li, T. Zhang, and Symmetry, vol. 14, no. 6, p. 1122, 2022.
B. Cui, “Restune: Resource oriented tuning boosted by meta-learning for [25] S. Liu and M. Vukolic´, “Leader set selection for low-latency geo-
cloud databases,” in Proceedings of the 2021 international conference replicated state machine,” IEEE TPDS, vol. 28, no. 7, pp. 1933–1946,
on management of data, 2021, pp. 2102–2114. 2016.
[26] F. Ryabinin, A. Gotsman, and P. Sutra, “Swiftpaxos: Fast geo-replicated
[3] Z. Chen, F. Zhang, J. Guan, J. Zhai, X. Shen, H. Zhang, W. Shu, and
state machines,” in USENIX NSDI, 2024.
X. Du, “Compressgraph: Efficient parallel graph analytics with rule-
based compression,” Proceedings of the ACM on Management of Data, [27] Z. Xu, C. Stewart, and J. Huang, “Elastic, geo-distributed raft,” in
IEEE/ACM IWQoS, 2019.
vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 1–31, 2023.
[28] S. J. Park and J. Ousterhout, “Exploiting commutativity for practical
[4] A. Lakshman and P. Malik, “Cassandra: a decentralized structured
fast replication,” in USENIX NSDI, 2019.
storage system,” ACM SIGOPS operating systems review, vol. 44, no. 2,
[29] A. Charapko, A. Ailijiang, and M. Demirbas, “Pigpaxos: Devouring the
pp. 35–40, 2010.
communication bottlenecks in distributed consensus,” in ACM SIGMOD,
[5] A. Thomson, T. Diamond, S.-C. Weng, K. Ren, P. Shao, and D. J. Abadi,
2021.
“Calvin: fast distributed transactions for partitioned database systems,”
[30] L. Lamport, “Fast paxos,” Springer DISC, vol. 19, pp. 79–103, 2006.
in ACM SIGMOD, 2012, pp. 1–12.
[31] I. Moraru, D. G. Andersen, and M. Kaminsky, “There is more consensus
[6] J. C. Corbett, J. Dean, M. Epstein, A. Fikes, C. Frost, J. J. Furman,
in egalitarian parliaments,” in ACM SOSP, 2013.
S. Ghemawat, A. Gubarev, C. Heiser, P. Hochschild et al., “Spanner:
[32] F. Nawab, D. Agrawal, and A. El Abbadi, “Dpaxos: Managing data
Google’s globally distributed database,” ACM TOCS, vol. 31, no. 3, pp.
closer to users for low-latency and mobile applications,” in ACM
1–22, 2013.
SIGMOD, 2018, pp. 1221–1236.
[7] A. Dragojevic´, D. Narayanan, M. Castro, and O. Hodson, “{FaRM}:
[33] R. Taft, I. Sharif, A. Matei, N. VanBenschoten, J. Lewis, T. Grieger,
Fast remote memory,” in 11th USENIX Symposium on Networked
K. Niemi, A. Woods, A. Birzin, R. Poss et al., “Cockroachdb: The
Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 14), 2014, pp. 401–414.
resilient geo-distributed sql database,” in ACM SIGMOD, 2020, pp.
[8] B. Dageville, T. Cruanes, M. Zukowski, V. Antonov, A. Avanes, J. Bock,
1493–1509.
J. Claybaugh, D. Engovatov, M. Hentschel, J. Huang, A. W. Lee, A. Mo-
[34] W. Zhou, Q. Peng, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Y. Ren, S. Li, G. Fu, Y. Cui,
tivala, A. Q. Munir, S. Pelley, P. Povinec, G. Rahn, S. Triantafyllis, and
Q. Li, C. Wu et al., “Geogauss: Strongly consistent and light-coordinated
P. Unterbrunner, “The snowflake elastic data warehouse,” in Proceedings
oltp for geo-replicated sql database,” ACM SIGMOD, vol. 1, no. 1, pp.
of the 2016 International Conference on Management of Data, ser.
1–27, 2023.
SIGMOD ’16, 2016, p. 215–226.
[35] Huawei, “Gaussdb,” https://www.huaweicloud.com/intl/en-
[9] K. Ren, D. Li, and D. J. Abadi, “Slog: Serializable, low-latency, geo- us/product/gaussdb.html, 2024.
replicated transactions,” VLDB, vol. 12, no. 11, 2019. [36] PingCAP, “Tidb,” https://www.pingcap.com/tidb/, 2024.
[10] Huawei, “Huawei cloud: Everything as a service,” https://www. [37] A. Cloud, “Polardb,” https://www.alibabacloud.com/en/product/polardb?
huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/, 2024. p lc=1, 2024.
[11] Amazon, “Aws global infrastructure,” https://aws.amazon.com/ [38] A. Verbitski, A. Gupta, D. Saha, M. Brahmadesam, K. Gupta, R. Mittal,
about-aws/global-infrastructure/?nc1=h ls, 2024. S. Krishnamurthy, S. Maurice, T. Kharatishvili, and X. Bao, “Amazon
[12] Google, “Introduction to bigquery omni,” https://cloud.google.com/ aurora: Design considerations for high throughput cloud-native relational
bigquery/docs/omni-introduction, 2024. databases,” in ACM SIGMOD, 2017, pp. 1041–1052.
[13] SnowFlake, “Snowflake database,” https://docs.snowflake.com/en/ [39] Neon, “Neon,” https://neon.tech/, 2024.
sql-reference/snowflake-db, 2024. [40] R. Neiheiser, M. Matos, and L. Rodrigues, “Kauri: Scalable bft con-
[14] Terraform, “Deploy federated multi-cloud kubernetes clusters,” sensus with pipelined tree-based dissemination and aggregation,” in
https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/networking/ Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 28th Symposium on Operating Systems
multicloud-kubernetes, 2024. Principles, 2021, pp. 35–48.
[15] DatenLord, “A high-performance geo-distributed metadata management [41] ETCD, “Etcd-raft,” https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd, 2024.
system,” https://datenlord.github.io/xline-home/#/, 2024. [42] E. Sakic, P. Vizarreta, and W. Kellerer, “Seer: Performance-aware leader
[16] Q. Zhuang, X. Shi, S. Liu, W. Lu, Z. Zhao, Y. Chen, T. Li, A. Pan, election in single-leader consensus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.01355,
and X. Du, “Geotp: Latency-aware geo-distributed transaction pro- 2021.
cessing in database middlewares (extended version),” arXiv preprint [43] T. Li, D. Xu, B. Wu, X. Guo, D. Jiang, C. Luo, W. Lu, and X. Du,
arXiv:2412.01213, 2024. “Transmission in wide-area deterministic networking: A survey,” Journal
[17] M. Mohiuddin, M. Primorac, E. Stai, and J.-Y. Le Boudec, “Fcr: Fast and of Software, pp. 1–30, 2024.
consistent controller-replication in software defined networking,” IEEE [44] L. Foundation, Traffic Control (tc) and Network Emulation (netem),
Access, vol. 7, pp. 170 589–170 603, 2019. 2024, accessed: 2024-07-23. [Online]. Available: https://man7.org/linux/
[18] W. Li, T. Li, D. Zhang, L. Dai, and Y. Chai, “Distributed consensus al- man-pages/man8/tc.8.html
gorithms for cross-domain data management: state-of-the-art, challenges [45] I. Amazon Web Services, AWS Latency Monitoring, 2024, accessed:
and perspectives,” Big Data Research, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 2–15, 2023. 2024-07-23. [Online]. Available: https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/
[19] Q. Zhang, J. Li, H. Zhao, Q. Xu, W. Lu, J. Xiao, F. Han, C. Yang, and [46] F. N. Fritsch and R. E. Carlson, “Monotone piecewise cubic interpola-
X. Du, “Efficient distributed transaction processing in heterogeneous tion,” SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis, pp. 238–246, 1980.
networks,” Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, vol. 16, no. 6, pp. [47] B. F. Cooper, A. Silberstein, E. Tam, R. Ramakrishnan, and R. Sears,
1372–1385, 2023. “Benchmarking cloud serving systems with ycsb,” in ACM symposium
[20] L. Li, K. Xu, T. Li, K. Zheng, C. Peng, D. Wang, X. Wang, M. Shen, on Cloud computing, 2010, pp. 143–154.
and R. Mijumbi, “A measurement study on multi-path tcp with multiple [48] Huawei Cloud, “Two-site and three-center disaster recovery solution,”
cellular carriers on high speed rails,” in Proceedings of the 2018 2024, accessed: 2024-07-22. [Online]. Available: https://support.
Conference of the ACM Special Interest Group on Data Communication, huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/bestpractice-sdrs/sdrs bp cbr 0000.html
2018, pp. 161–175.
[21] T. Li, K. Zheng, K. Xu, R. A. Jadhav, T. Xiong, K. Winstein, and
K. Tan, “Tack: Improving wireless transport performance by taming
acknowledgments,” in Proceedings of the Annual conference of the ACM
Special Interest Group on Data Communication on the applications,
technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communication,
2020, pp. 15–30.